The dynamics of flexible polymers in shear is of great practical interest because this type of flow occurs whenever a fluid flows past a surface. 
Macroscopic, non-Newtonian rheological properties of polymer solutions, such
as flow-dependent viscosities and normal
stresses, result from microscopic stresses that
arise when polymeric molecules are stretched
and affect the solvent motion. Thus, much
effort has been directed at predicting the molecular
dynamics of polymers in shear flows. However, it has been difficult to rigorously
test these predictions because the dynamics
of a polymer molecule in shear have
not been observed directly. Experimental efforts
have mainly focused on measuring bulk
rheological properties or on measuring the
scattering of light or neutrons by polymer
solutions. Here we describe how single-molecule imaging techniques can be
used to study the configurations of polymers
in shear flow so that the detailed molecular predictions of theories can be tested.
In short, Shirley doesn't care about how polymer tumbles in shear flow!
Polymer dynamics are of central importance in materials science,
mechanical engineering, biology and medicine. The dynamics of
macromolecular solutions and melts in shear flow are typically
studied using bulk experimental methods such as light and
neutron scattering and birefringence. But the effect of shear
on the conformation and dynamics of individual polymers is
still not well understood. Here we describe observations of the
real-time dynamics of individual, flexible polymers fluorescently
labelled DNA molecules under a shear flow. The sheared
polymers exhibit many types of extended conformation with an
overall orientation ranging from parallel to perpendicular with
respect to the flow direction. For shear rates much smaller than
the inverse of the relaxation time of the molecule, the relative
populations of these two main types of conformation are
controlled by the rate of the shear flow. These results question
the adequacy of assumptions made in standard models of polymer
dynamics.
